Update Kafka messages docs (#31430)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/data_streams/messages.md

title: Messages
---

> The Messages feature allows you to view Kafka messages on specific partitions / offsets, to debug poison payload problems, or to learn more about your data streams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Messages feature allows you to view Kafka messages at specific partitions or offsets, debug poison payload problems, and better understand your data streams.
```

<div class="alert alert-info">

>    This feature is in a preview state. To be added to the preview, contact your Datadog Customer Success Manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Messages is in Preview. Contact your Customer Success Manager for access.
```

</div>

> ## Supported Data Formats

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Supported data formats
```

> Avro, Protobuf and Json are supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Avro, Protobuf, and JSON are supported.
```

## Prerequisites

> ### Kafka consumer integration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Kafka Consumer integration
```

> [Kafka Consumer][6] integration needs to be setup on the topic you want to retrieve messages from.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Kafka Consumer][6] integration needs to be set up on the topic you want to retrieve messages from.
```

#### Validation

> 1. [Run the Agent's status subcommand][10] and look for `kafka_consumer` under the Checks section.

Author: I meant the agent status command

2. Ensure the metric `kafka.consumer_lag` is generated for the appropriate `topic`.

### Agent version

Ensure the agent version you are running is 7.70 or later.

#### Validation

1. [Run the Agent's status subcommand][10] and check the agent version.

> 2. In the Datadog app, under `integrations`, `View agents`, find the agent running the Kafka Consumer integration, and check its version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In Datadog, under `integrations`, `View agents`, find the agent running the Kafka Consumer integration, and check its version.
```

> 2. In the Datadog app, under `integrations`, `View agents`, find the agent running the Kafka Consumer integration, and check its version.

Author: Yeah, linked it. I don't like the fact that it's linking to the the app in us1 always, but maybe there is a way to fix that.

### Remote configuration

> Ensure [remote configuration][3] is setup for the agent running the Kafka Consumer integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure [remote configuration][3] is set up for the agent running the Kafka Consumer integration.
```

#### Validation

> 1. In the Datadog app, under `organization-settings/remote-config`, check that remote configuration is enabled at the organization level

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In Datadog, under `organization-settings/remote-config`, check that remote configuration is enabled at the organization level.
```

> 2. In the Datadog app, under `organization-settings/remote-config`, check that the agent running the Kafka Consumer integration has remote configuration enabled, and is using an api key with remote configuration enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In Datadog, under `organization-settings/remote-config`, check that the agent running the Kafka Consumer integration has remote configuration enabled, and is using an API key with remote configuration enabled.
```

## Required permissions

> You must have the following permissions enabled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must have the following permissions:
```

* `Logs Read Data`
* `Logs Live Tail`

You can verify your current permissions on your [Profile page][7].

> To enable permissions, edit an existing role or create a new one on the [Roles page][8]. If you don't have adequate access to modify roles, contact your organization's administrator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable permissions, edit an existing role or create a new one on the [Roles page][8]. If you do not have permission to modify roles, contact your organization's administrator.
```
